This documents explains most parts of the SPI Membership Committee.

Responsibility and Tasks
------------------------

The responsibilities of the SPI Membership Committee are to deal with the
body of SPI members and to handle votes.  SPI's membership program has two
stages:

 - Non-Contributing Members: these can simply apply on the web site and
   will become Non-Contributing Members after they reply to an e-mail
   confirming their e-mail address.  These do not expire and are open
   to anyone.

 - Contributing Members: those have made a contribution to the free
   software and open source community; in theory, they are valid for
   one year but in practice this has not been handled very strictly
   in the past.  People apply for a Contributing Membership by
   logging into the web site, filling out a form listing their
   contributions.  A member of the SPI Membership Committee then has
   to become their Application Manager and review their application.
   Members of SPI projects, such as Debian, automatically have a
   right for a Contributing Membership.  For others, their contribution
   has to be evaluated.  If they left the "contribution" field
   empty, ask for more information.

Some tasks in more detail:

 - Approving a Contributing Membership request: you log into the web site,
   click on "Contrib Members Applications" on the right bar, then you
   get a page with details about the applicant.  There is one line saying
   Contrib application #nnn from 200n-nn-nn.  I typically open this
   link in a new window; I review the application, put in the date and
   confirm if it's okay.  Afterwards, you have to change Contrib Member
   to "yes" and click "Update Membership status".  If everything was
   successful, you should see the message "Applicant became a
   Contributing Member, emailing them" on the top of the page.

 - From time to time, non-contributing membership requests should be
   reviewed and removed.  Some people sign up but never respond to
   the e-mail asking for confirmation.

 - Handle votes: I've no idea about this, maybe weasel can fill this
   in.


Scripts behind the scenes and technical information
---------------------------------------------------

The PHP source code is currently in CVS at
:ext:user@cvs.spi-inc.org:/srv/cvs.spi-inc.org/cvs/spi

There is a user called "spinm" who runs cron jobs and there is a group
"spinm" as which all files should be owned.  Members of the Membership
Committee have access to the spinm user via sudo.  There is a Postgres
database called "spiapp".

There are three cron jobs:

 - /srv/members.spi-inc.org/bin/spi-private.pl: updates the text file
   listing all people subscribed to the spi-private mailing list.
   This is read by Mailman.

 - /srv/members.spi-inc.org/bin/inform-new-apps.pl: this generates
   a daily message to the Membership Committee if there are any
   new pending Contributing Membership applications.

 - /srv/members.spi-inc.org/bin/webbuild: this periodically regenerates
   the web site from the PHP sources.


The Membership Committee does not have root access.  You have to contact
admin@spi-inc.org (currently Wichert Akkerman) for any requests.


Adding new Membership Committee members
---------------------------------------

 - Simply log in at https://members.spi-inc.org/, go to their profile
   and tick the "Application Manager" box.

 - They need an account on chic.spi-inc.org

 - They need to be in the "spinm" group

 - They need sudo access to the "spinm" user

 - They should have Postgres access to the "spiapp" database (or
   they can access it through the "spinm" user).

 - They have to create a ~/.forward file so they receive e-mail.

 - They should be added to /srv/members.spi-inc.org/etc/aliases so
   they receive mail sent to members@.


Members and History
-------------------

Craig Small originally built the web site based on his scripts for Debian's
NM process.  Later, Martin Michlmayr and Peter Palfrader took over; little
modifications to the system itself were made but Peter added support for
handling votes.  In March, they indicated their interest to step down and
in May Graham Wilson, Luk Claes and Michael Schultheiss became the new
Membership Committee.


Open Questions
--------------

In the past, Martin Michlmayr (head of the Membership Committee at that
time) became an advisor to the SPI board.  It is not clear whether the new
head should become an advisor too since this is not the case with other
groups within SPI.  This is something the SPI Board has to decide.


TODO list
---------

 - Move the PHP code from CVS to SVN

 - Check all the scripts into SVN as well, and re-structure the layout
   (i.e. move the *.php scripts in a sub-directory).

